# Overview

The Rollbar configuration utility is used to configure which services will run on a single host as well as generate and manage the configuration files that the Rollbar services require.

# *configuration.sh* command line options


| Short | Long | Default | Description |
|-------|:-----|:--------|:------------|
|-n | --name | `hostname -f` | The fully qualified domain name to run Rollbar on. This will be the host name used to access the Rollbar web interface.
| | --services | all | A comma separated list of services to run on this host. E.g. web,api,worker
|-f | --file | *.settings* | The host settings file to save configuration options to
|-i | --iface | eth0| The network interface used to communicate and listen for traffic on
| | --save | Off | When this option is specified, settings will be saved to `.settings` or the filename specified with the **--file** option
|-j | --join | | The IP address of another Rollbar host to join with
|-b | --beanstalk-ip | | The IP address of an external Beanstalk server
|-e | --memcache-ip | | The IP address of an external Memcache server
|-p | --smtp-host | | The hostname or IP address of an external SMTP servier to use
| | --smtp-user | rollbar@rollbar | The SMTP username used to authenticate with the SMTP server
| | --smtp-password | `random` | The SMTP password used to authenticate with the SMTP server
| | --clean-containers | Off | Remove existing rollbar containers
|-v | --verbose | | Enables verbose logging
|-h | --help | | Print usage message and exit


# Advanced

## Types of configuration

There are 3 types of settings data:
- Host - The options that describe the host environment and which services to run
- Installation - The options that are needed in order to start up the Rollbar services
- Runtime - The options that the Rollbar services need to operate

### Host settings

These settings are stored in a single file, *.settings*. They describe the environment in which
the Rollbar installation will run in, including which services to run, which network interface to
use for communication and any external service IPs.

You should **not** edit this file by hand since it is generated by the *configuration.sh* script.

### Installation settings

These files live in the On-Premises distribution directory in *./config*. They are used by the
*configuration.sh* script to generate the runtime configuration which is stored in */etc/rollbar*.

You should not need to modify these files unless you are trying to do something fairly custom.
Any changes made to these files will end up in the runtime configuration.

### Runtime settings

These configuration files are installed into */etc/rollbar* by the *configuration.sh* script.

You should **not** edit these files by hand since they will be overwritten by the *configuration.sh*
script.

## Custom SSL Certs

The On-Premises configuration script will generate a self-signed SSL cert to use for the initial setup. We recommend
using your own SSL cert which matches the FQDN you provide *configure.sh*.

To add your own cert, replace the generated */etc/rollbar/rollbar.cert* and */etc/rollbar/rollbar.key* files
with your own. Make sure the provided SSL cert does not have a password.

**Note:** These files will be overwritten each time you run *configure.sh* so be sure to replace
them each time you re-run the configuration script. We will provide a cleaner mechanism for using your own
certs in a future release.

## Networking

Rollbar services run in Docker containers. These containers are able to talk to each other on the
same host via the Docker bridge network which is created and managed by Docker and Docker Compose.

In order for Rollbar services to communicate outside of a single host, they use the network specified
by the **--iface** configuration option described above. This option should be set to the private network
of the host. **Rollbar assumes that this network is secure and is managed by the customer.**

For more information on networking, see the [architecture overview](architecture.md "Rollbar On-Premises Architecture").

## External Services

The following services are bundled with the On-Premises distribution. Customers who choose to manage their
own services may do so by using the associated command line parameter.

| MySQL | Memcache | Beanstalk | Redis | SphinxSearch | SMTP Server |
|-------|:---------|:----------|:------|:-------------|:------------|
| --mysql-ip | --memcache-ip | --beanstalk-ip | --redis-ip | --sphinx-ip | --smtp-host

If you choose to manage your own services, you will need to perform some extra work to configure those
services to be used by Rollbar.

### MySQL

**Note:** The current On-Premises distribution does not work with MySQL SSL connections. This will be fixed in a future release.

**Note:** Parameterization of the MySQL username/password will be implemented in a future release. This is possible to do with the
current release but requires editing some configuration files. Please contact support@rollbar.com for more information.

Rollbar has been tested to work with MySQL/Percona 5.6.

Run the following SQL:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS mox;
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS mox_raw;
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS mox_uuid;

GRANT SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,ALTER ON mox.* TO mox@'%' IDENTIFIED BY "mox";
GRANT SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,ALTER ON mox_raw.* TO mox@'%' IDENTIFIED BY "mox";
GRANT SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,ALTER ON mox_uuid.* TO mox@'%' IDENTIFIED BY "mox";

GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON mox.* TO flyway@'%' IDENTIFIED BY "r0llbar-flyw4y" WITH GRANT OPTION;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON mox_raw.* TO flyway@'%' IDENTIFIED BY "r0llbar-flyw4y";
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON mox_uuid.* TO flyway@'%' IDENTIFIED BY "r0llbar-flyw4y";

CREATE USER haproxy@'%';

FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

### RDS

Rollbar has been tested to work with MySQL 5.6 (specifically 5.6.27, but any 5.6 version should work).

Settings need to be tweaked in RDS before Rollbar code will work with it.  Change the `log_bin_trust_function_creators` setting
to make this work.  Create a new parameter group, change the `log_bin_trust_function_creators` setting to `1`, then apply the parameter group
to the RDS instance.  Do this before configuring and starting the Rollbar docker containers.

### SphinxSearch

**Note:** Using an external SphinxSearch server has not been verified so please contact support@rollbar.com if you run into any troubles.

Rollbar has been tested to work with SphinxSearch version 2.0.10.

Add the following to your SphinxSearch configuration directory:

```
index item
{
    type = rt
    path = /var/lib/sphinxsearch/item
    dict = keywords

    rt_field = title
    rt_field = environment
    rt_attr_uint = project_id
    rt_attr_uint = platform
    rt_attr_uint = framework
    rt_attr_uint = last_occurrence_timestamp
    rt_attr_uint = total_occurrences
    rt_attr_uint = unique_occurrences
    rt_attr_uint = status
    rt_attr_uint = level

    charset_type = utf-8

    min_infix_len = 3
    enable_star = 1
}

searchd
{
    listen = 0.0.0.0:9306:mysql41
    log = /var/log/sphinxsearch/searchd.log
    query_log = /var/log/sphinxsearch/query.log
    pid_file = /var/run/sphinxsearch/searchd.pid
    max_matches = 1000
    workers = threads
}
```

### SMTP Server

**Note:** Rollbar requires the SMTP server to support the STARTTLS command.
